Add Function Multi Versioning. (#21)
ARM-software/acle: main/design_documents/function-multi-versioning.md

# Function Multi Versioning support for Arm architectures

> Other architectures supports [function multi versioning]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other architectures supports [Function Multi Versioning (FMV)]
```

(https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/FunctionMultiVersioning). This documents presents
the rationale behind the design of the same feature for Arm.

> All toolchains and platforms should use the same source code formats to simplify

Reviewer: ```suggestion

All toolchains and platforms should use the same source code formats to simplify
```

the development and deployment of software and therefore increase the use of
architectural features. Arm architectures are a bit more complex in view of
feature availability therefore function versions would be better to be bound to
features instead of cpu implementations. Also the kernels may limit the
available features in the user space. Arm architectures are a bit more complex
in view of feature availability therefore function versions would be better to
be bound to features instead of cpu implementations. Also the kernels may limit
the available features in the user space. Function Multi Versioning abbreviated

> to FMV.

Reviewer: Duplicated sentences?

> Why ACLE instead of ABI? FMV does not change how the function behaves from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is FMV defined in the ACLE instead of the ABI? Because FMV does not change how the function behaves from the
```

Author: yes

ABI perspective. Because the caller does not know which version is actually
called, the following holds for all the function derived from a function via
FMV:

1. the derived function have the same signature of the original function,
2. the derived function obey to the same calling convention of the original

> function.

Reviewer: Aren't rule 1 and 2 something that should actually go into the specs?

Author: "These attributes have no effect on the calling convention, all versions must
use the same calling convention." is in the spec.

> Today the `target` [attribute aarch64](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/AArch64-Function-Attributes.html#AArch64-Function-Attributes>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today the [`target` attribute for aarch64](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/AArch64-Function-Attributes.html#AArch64-Function-Attributes>)
```

Author: ack

is used for many purposes, some of which might overlap the functionality

> introduced by FMV. To avoid confusion, we propose the  introduction of the
> `target_version` attribute besides the `target_clones` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduced by FMV. To avoid confusion, we named the attributes used by FMV with
`target_version` and `target_clones`.
```

Author: ack

> The ACLE does not specify the underlying mechanism of the selection and the

Reviewer: Is this true? This seems to be defined in the `Selection` section of the specs?

Author: The mechanics of the selection is up to the implementation but expected results are defined in the `Selection` section.

dispatching. On an embedded system probably these mechanisms will be implemented
differently than on a desktop operating system. On Linux based systems
mechanisms based on [IFUNC](https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/GNU_IFUNC) will
likely be used. Therefore, these mechanisms are left unspecified in the ACLE
because the ACLE should specify the behavior that software could rely on every
implementation.

Feature test macro
##################

In order for users to determine the availability of support in the toolchain,
we propose the following feature test macro, to be
defined to 1 if the support is available:

``` c
  __ARM_FEATURE_FUNCTION_MULTI_VERSIONING
```

> Enabling a feature for given function does not enable the related ACLE
> functionalities like the intrinsics in the function's scope. That would require
> significant amount of changes in the C/C++ preprocessor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling this feature and using one of the attributes on a given function does not enable the related ACLE feature(s) associated to the `"name"` expressed in the attribute.
 That would require
significant amount of changes in the C/C++ preprocessor.
```

## Attributes

> These use cases to be considered:
> 
> - The compiler is not aware of the new attributes.
> 
> Usually unknown attributes are ignored, but the feature test macro is there to
> disable the unwanted code parts.
> 
> - FMV aware compiler processes the attributes with newer arch features.
> 
> In this case the compiler should ignore the new feature because it won't able to
> process it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These use cases to be considered:

* *The compiler is not aware of the new attributes introduced by FMV*: usually unknown attributes are ignored, but the feature test macro is there to
disable the unwanted code parts.

* *A compiler is aware of FMV but it encounters an attribute with and unknown architectural  features expressed in `<name>`*: in this case the compiler  will not be able to recognize the feature therefore it will be ignored.
```
